# Buoy-Mapper

Synopsis

	Buoy Mapper pulls the data of a specified Spotter buoy from the Sofar site, displaying that data’s latitude and longitude pairs as squares on a map of Lake Superior.
	These squares are color coded to indicate their speed with a key on the right. At the most recent latitude/longitude pair, Buoy Mapper draws two predictive vectors,
	one based on the past 1 hour of data and the other based on the past 24 hours of data, provided there are enough past data points. These vectors indicate the predicted
	location of the Spotter buoy 1 hour into the future and 24 hours into the future. These vectors are solely based on past positional and speed data and do not take into
	account currents and wind.

Description

	Buoy Mapper accepts inputs for a Spotter Buoy ID, start and end dates, and an API authentication token. Only the Spotter ID is required for Buoy Mapper to run, for if
	the date fields are left blank, Buoy Mapper will pull the latest data of the specified buoy from the Sofar website. The API authentication token must be placed in the
	file apiKey.TXT. Nothing else may be written in this file, including formatting characters like quotation marks. Buoy Mapper will use the key in apiKey.TXT unless a new
	API authentication token is specified in the respective field. This should only be necessary if a new API authentication token is generated from the user’s account on
	the Sofar site. If one wishes to save the new key, replace the old key in apiKey.TXT with the new one. The window generated by Buoy Mapper containing the map and points
	of data can be interacted with using the tools at the top.

To use:

	Input the buoy’s Spotter ID into the Spotter ID field, formatted in all caps, i.e. “SPOT-1234.” This is the only required option for Buoy Mapper to run.
	If one wishes to view data from a specific date range, input the start and end dates into their respective fields, formatted as “MM/DD/YYYY-HH:MM:SSAM” (or PM), omitting
	the zero before single-digit months, days, and hours, i.e. “10/31/2020-1:24:00AM,” or “11/4/2020-12:54:00PM.” If left blank, Buoy Mapper will default to pulling the latest
	data from the Sofar site. If the API authentication token has been updated, input the new one into the API Authentication Token field, or replace the old one in apiKey.TXT.

Options

	This version of Buoy Mapper (BuoyMapperGUI) only runs via a GUI, but another version is available on Github (https://github.com/SebastianSAdams/Buoy-Mapper) that can be run
	with a command line. Running via command line will be useful for debugging and the command line options are listed below.

Required:

	-s
	--spotterid	The option to specify the Spotter ID of the target buoy, i.e. “SPOT-1234”

Not required:

	-h
	--help		Lists all the options available along with their description

	-a
	--startdate	The start date of the date range of data to be pulled from the Sofar site

	-b
	--enddate	The end date of the date range of data to be pulled from the Sofar site

	-k
	--apikey	The API authentication token, needed only if it has been updated from the one stated above.
